📖  [AMP Story Paywall] amp-story-subscriptions documentation (#38179)
ampproject/amphtml: extensions/amp-story-subscriptions/0.1/amp-story-subscriptions.md

       }
     }
</script>
<script type="application/json" id="amp-subscriptions">
     {
       "services": [
         {
           "authorizationUrl": "https://publisher.domain.com/entitlement",
           "pingbackUrl": "https://publisher.domain/pingback",
           "actions":{
             "login": "https://publisher.domain.com/signin",
             "subscribe": "https://publisher.domain.com/subscribe"
           }
         },
         {
           "serviceId": "subscribe.google.com"
         }
       ]
     }
</script>
...
```

See details about specifying this configuration in [`amp-subscriptions`](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-subscriptions/).

# `amp-story` and `amp-story-subscriptions` attributes

```html
<amp-story publisher-logo-src='https://publisher-domain.com/logo.jpg'>
    <amp-story-page>...</amp-story-page>
    ...
    <amp-story-subscriptions subscriptions-page-index='3' price='$0.50/week' headline='Culture at your fingertips' description='Subscribe for unlimited access.' additional-description='Cancel anytime.'>
    </amp-story-subscription>
</amp-story>
```

### `publisher-logo-src` {string} required

> A logo URL to show the publisher’s subscribe button.

Reviewer: Do we have sizing and format recommendations we could add here?

Author: Added a reference to amp-story document.

### `subscriptions-page-index` {number} optional

> The index of the page that would show the subscriptions dialog. If not specified, it defaults to 2, which is the 3rd page of the story. Note that this specified page cannot be the first two pages nor the last page of the story.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The index of the page that displays the subscriptions dialog. If not specified, it defaults to 2, which is the 3rd page of the story. Note that this specified page cannot be the first two pages nor the last page of the story.
```

Reviewer: Can we explain more what what mean by index? How do they find which index it is or specify it?

Author: Done

### `price` {string} required

> Subscription/offer price.

Reviewer: Are they able to specify if it's per story or a monthly subscription? Is there a limit to the number of characters? Where and how is this displayed?

Author: Yes any offering. The limits are not about characters but about the view width so it's responsive. This is displayed in the subscriptions dialog. I have attached a sample image of the feature at the very beginning of the doc.

### `headline` {string} optional

> A headline string that describes the subscription/offer.

Reviewer 2: Please add what the default would be when optional attributes are not present.

Author: The line would be removed if nothing is provided. No default value here.

7. If the user encounters a subsequent paywalled Story from this publisher, they will continue to retain access based on [amp-subscription mechanisms](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-subscriptions/#combining-the-amp-reader-id-with-publisher-cookies).

# Subscriptions JSON Configuration Example

```html
...
<script type="application/ld+json">
     {
       "@context": "http://schema.org",
       "@type": "NewsArticle",
       "isAccessibleForFree": "False",
       "isPartOf": {
         "@type": ["CreativeWork", "Product"],
         "name" : "Product A",
         "productID": "publisher.domain.com:product"
       }
     }
</script>
<script type="application/json" id="amp-subscriptions">
     {
       "services": [
         {
           "authorizationUrl": "https://publisher.domain.com/entitlement",
           "pingbackUrl": "https://publisher.domain/pingback",
           "actions":{
             "login": "https://publisher.domain.com/signin",
             "subscribe": "https://publisher.domain.com/subscribe"
           }
         },
         {
           "serviceId": "subscribe.google.com"
         }
       ]
     }
</script>
...
```

> See details about specifying this configuration in [`amp-subscriptions`](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-subscriptions/).

Reviewer 3: If there is no difference between the configuration for a Story or classic AMP, I think we could call it out specifically (you can port your existing configuration...) and just link to the doc without giving an example.

Author: Sure. Removed this section and call it out in the summary section.

    - Sign-in with publisher’s sign-in flow (i.e. publisher provided sign-in page).
    - Subscribe directly via the publisher (i.e. via a publisher provided subscription page).
    - If enabled by the publisher, subscribe via [Subscribe with Google](https://developers.google.com/news/subscribe).
6. If the user completes any of the above authentication flows, the user is returned to the Story page, the paywall is dismissed and the user can consume the rest of the Story.
7. If the user encounters a subsequent paywalled Story from this publisher, they will continue to retain access based on [amp-subscription mechanisms](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-subscriptions/#combining-the-amp-reader-id-with-publisher-cookies).

# `amp-story` and `amp-story-subscriptions` attributes

```html
<amp-story publisher-logo-src='https://publisher-domain.com/logo.jpg'>
    <amp-story-page>...</amp-story-page>
    ...
    <amp-story-subscriptions subscriptions-page-index='3' price='$0.50/week' headline='Culture at your fingertips' description='Subscribe for unlimited access.' additional-description='Cancel anytime.'>
    </amp-story-subscription>
</amp-story>
```

> ### `publisher-logo-src` {string} required

Reviewer 3: Can we get it from the `amp-story` metadata? https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/main/extensions/amp-story/amp-story.md#publisher-logo-src-guidelines
Do publishers need to repeat it?

Author: It is from `amp-story`'s attribute. I was trying to express that this `amp-story` attribute is mandatory for this extension to work. But yes, this attribute is already mandatory. We don't need to repeatedly saying that here. Removed this entirely.

A URL to the story publisher's logo in square format (1x1 aspect ratio). This logo would be shown on the publisher's subscribe button. For example `publisher-logo-src="https://example.com/logo/1x1.png"`, where 1x1.png is a 96x96 px logo. See the guidelines at [`amp-story` dev document](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/amp-story/?format=stories#publisher-logo-src-guidelines).

> ### `subscriptions-page-index` {number} optional

Reviewer 3: Plz sort by required first, then optional

Author: Done.

The index of the `amp-story-page` that displays the subscriptions dialog. The `amp-story-page` index in `amp-story` starts from 0, e.g. the first `amp-story-page` has index of 0. If not specified, it defaults to 2, which is the 3rd `amp-story-page` of the story.

Note that this specified page cannot be the first two pages nor the last page of the story.

> ### `price` {string} required

Reviewer 3: Please give one or two examples (e.g. `$10` or `10€`) so people see how they can specify currencies

Author: Done.

Btw I never noticed that it is 10€ instead of €10. nice to know : )
